= Tenantfy

This is opinionated use of the awesome Apartment gem. 
It's a plug and play ready solution for enabling multitenancy in rails applications.
It comes with configurations and helpers I find usefull in my projects.

Apartment is an awesome gem by itself, be sure to read more about it at https://github.com/bradrobertson/apartment


=== How this works

If you don't know what is tenantcy or how the apartment gem works, please read https://github.com/bradrobertson/apartment first.

This gem creates 2 models, Tenantfy::[Tenant, Url].
When you include the Tenantfy::Controller to your controller, it will automatically check for the correct Tenant for each request.
This is done by looking for the request.host in the Tenantfy::Url table. The current tenant will be available in the `current_tenant` method.

This is meant to be used and only tested using PostgreSQL.
Every tenant will have it own schema in the database, and the apartment gem will use postgres' awesome `search_path` to look in the current_tenant schema first.
You may have shared tables between your tenants, check the `config/initializers/apartment.rb`.

=== Customizations

==== Custom Views per tenant

In my projects, each tenant usually have a different layout/theme. So the tenant model have a `theme` attribute.
When this is setted, the `Tenantfy::Controller` will prepend the tenant theme in the view path, for example, if the theme is `blue`,
the path `app/views/blue` will be prepended to the controller view_path. 

==== Custom JS/CSS per tenant

There are helpers to include the javascripts/stylesheets with the tenant theme (ex: app/assets/javascripts/blue/application.js).

Example:

  <%= tenant_stylesheet_link_tag('application.css') %>   # will include blue/application.css
  <%= tenant_javascript_include_tag('application.js') %> # will include blue/application.js

=== Conclusion

If you don't need any of this customizations, I recommend you use the Apartment gem alone.
I only made this because I had these requirements in more than one project, and maybe someone could find a good use of it too.

== Installation

Gemfile:

  gem 'tenantfy'

Console:

  rails g tenantfy:install
  rake db:migrate

Controller:

  class ApplicationController
    include Tenantfy::Controller
  end

= License

This project uses MIT-LICENSE.
